## Follower1_8v
by Dan Ran 2016
Raspberry Pi based Processing Installation Game
####[Project Documentation Site Including Video](http://www.danranpresent.com/portfolio_page/follower/)


Follower is the third piece in this series. It is a video game built using Raspberry Pi and Processing. The physical outfit that houses the video game was constructed using laser-cut acrylic. Follower is a video game about culture reproduction and social reproduction. In this game the player is a red square in a conceptual world that references “Flatland.” The goal for the square or the player is to try to follow the leader inside the Flatland society, which is a big circle followed by many small circles. To win this game, the player has to be properly assimilated into the society. So, in the game the player will try to follow the big circle as close as possible. If the player is not following the leader circle the screen will start flashing and alarming the player. After the player follows the big circle for a certain amount of time (10 sec), the player, which is the square, will transform into a circle. The game will confirm that the player has become a member of the Flatland society. Then the game will end. 
Cultural reproduction is about the idea that cultural norms and cultural values will transmit from generation to generation (Glossary of Sociological Terms). When we are reproduced by the culture, then social reproduction was involved. Social reproduction is a concept originally proposed by Karl Marx. He thinks that social inequality will transmit from one generation to the next generation. In this game, the new member will be forced to conform to society, and there is no way to escape. Because the large gap was created by capitalists, the player represents the lower class and can only be a follower. If the player refuses to follow, the social system will try to make him or her uncomfortable by flashing an alarm. 
